Commentary week 6
What is the aim of an MVC Framework? 100 words
The aim of an MVC framework is to separate the view from the model and controller. This means if I updated anything in the view folder that would concern the appearance of my webpage, this would not affect the data that is saved and used in my webpage. The view folder is mostly concerned with what the users see, the appearance of my webpage. The controller is in charge of the interaction between my webpage and the user and the model will take connect to the database and handles the SQL queries, hereby interacting with the files found in the view folder.
What are the advantages of an MVC Framework? 100 words
Using the MVC framework provides structure to the different files of code and also makes it more clear and easier to find the proper code when needing to change or look up code previously worked on; this makes the code more reusable as it is set up in a more generic manner. This also means that my SQL queries are not randomly distributed throughout all the code but is neatly found in one file making it easier to edit, maintain and add to. Furthermore, the amount of lines of code is reduced as each file serves a purpose and is separated from other code. Therefore, if you need to find a specific section of code you don't need to go through and check multiple chunks of code.
Using a diagram show how your code from the RPC works, using the example supplied. When you wrote your code for part 3 above, what do you need to know about my data? 200 words
The diagram can be found under: The data flow diagram is located at this link: https://mayar.abertay.ac.uk/~1704097/306/week6/week6Diagram.jpg
To understand how the request is made, the information that goes into the request data object is important. Inside of this object you need to have the JSON RPC, the ID and parameters you will be giving to the request. In the case that you are adding an employee, you will need to mention the method you will be calling. All of this information is important, as when the request is sent to api/index.php these are all of the variables that determine the response.
The data about employees that was displayed shows the layout of the table displaying the employees. This information is needed to output the database entries correctly. As it is not my own database, I would not have had enough information to show the relevant data according to the tables structure if I did not know the names of the columns that are being displayed on displayallEmployees. Furthermore it was important to see that the information being received was a JSON object that encompassed the entire response and inside this response was an array of JSON objects that represented employees.
 After the JSON employee object was extracted, it was iterated through using a for loop and any desired information within this JSON object was then outputted onto the webpage.

