Week 4 Commentary:
Remember that you need to add some weekly comments (400 words). Being able to login to a site is a key component for many web sites. Consider the security aspects that you have put into your site which is just to protect the comments section. What if you were selling items from your site? Talk a bit about whether the security you have on your site is sufficient; and outline any improvements for a selling site. (300 words)
Logging in to my item’s web site is necessary, if the user wants to comment on an article linked to an item being displayed. For now this is the only use of being logged in and having an account, but usually having an account has many more functions, for example buying items, which could be included in the future.
The security aspects that need to be taken into consideration is making sure that there cannot be any SQL injections into the database. This is partly secured as inserting into the database is done using prepared SQL statements, which enable higher security. Since data laws have increased for storing any type of information on the user’s data, there should be a pop up, asking the user to agree to the Terms and Services, as personal information including their email and their firstname and surname is stored in the database. Furthermore, the account holders’ passwords are hashed, and they are not stored in the database user table openly, but only the hashed version is stored. 
If my website would start selling items, the data needed on each user would be more sensitive. Currently only the email of the user logged in is displayed openly, which is also used to login to their account. This could be unsafe and in future developments if usernames were displayed openly, users should be advised that this is the case. In addition to this a session variable should be created which automatically logs the current user out after a certain amount of time has passed. Also, a warning should be displayed to users as the comments section also displays the users email, which could be seen as sensitive personal data. Another feature that should be added is that if the typed in user credentials are not correct it should not indicate whether the username/email or password is wrong, as this information verifies that one part of the entered login could be correct. For a hacker this information would already help them, which is something I would want to avoid.
Discus clearly how you would set the session maximum length to 5 mins. (100 words)
I would want to set a maximum session length to 5 minutes, to ensure security for the user that is logged in to that time. This is done by making 5 minutes the default value of the amount of time that the session used should be destroyed since the active user has interacted with the website. I would have to set session.gc_maxlife to 300s. Checking in my code using (time - $_SESSION[“last_used”]) <300s; which is checking whether the logged in user has been inactive on the site for more than 5 minutes; 300 seconds running in an infinite while loop. If this is true, then reset the “last used” variable so the user can still be logged in and use the website. Yet if this statement is false, destroy the current logged in session variable, or set it equal to a time in the past to destroy it. This needs to be don’t be using session:unset(); and session_destroy(); which logs out the current user.
