Commentary week 9:
Your report this week should include 100 words per program above commenting on the working of each program. Within the comments include something about the suitability of the program for your mobile phone.
First program: Single page outputting the most recent results
In JQuery mobile I used the benefit of the hash system functionality to handle the history. This is used for both the single page and multipage programs. This is the only single paged program and does not use the hash functionality to be accessed from the main homepage, but the button leading back to the homepage is accessed through the hash function. The presentation of this on my mobile phone seems acceptable, and looks very mobile suitable.
Second program: Multi paged program showing the latest 10 records
For this part of the program, the for loop that looped through the “readings” table in my database was modified so that only the last 10 records were going to be displayed to the user. The data that outputted the state of the electricImp was still in JSON format. This program was suitable for the mobile phone, it seemed fitting to the screen size and had a button at the bottom that clearly led back to the multi page homepage using the hash function.
Third program: Multi paged program with an Ajax update
This program used the basic program but included an AJAX script that updated the page automatically every 20 seconds. This means the user would not need to manually reload the page whenever there would be an update to the data of the readings in the database. The div was reloaded this means not the entire web page needed to be reloaded to get the latest updated records, but instead only a section of the webpage. This worked well and was suitable for my mobile phone, as it looked the same as the other 2 programs described above.
Fourth program: multi paged with an added graph 
For the fourth program, the state readings that were previously outputted from the database into the other pages will now be represented in a graph. There was a template from JSCanvas that provided the structure for this bar graph. Instead of manually adding the data to be shown on the bar chart, they were taken in JSON format in PHP. This means that whenever the data in the database would update, so would the data in the graph. The graph had some difficulties properly displaying on a mobile phone as it was cut off on the side, therefore it was not as suitable for my mobile phone as the other programs.
