Commentary week 11:
Document the page you have developed including how the data is fed onto your site. (200 words). 
To implement an RSS feed from an external source onto my webpage I had two different files dedicated to this; I had a PHP file and an XSLT file. I found the source of an external RSS feed that was fitting to the content I displayed on my webpage. The source RSS feed was coded in XML, therefore I looked at the tags within this code to be able to find the fitting tags that I would use to output the necessary information. Most of the tags were not consistent item to item, and some items locked tags such as the copyright tag. This made it difficult to output each tag contained within each item, so instead I ad to select the tags that were found in each item. Therefore, I used the title tag and the link tag. I applied a template to each item, and this template outputs the title and link of each item. This information was put into an HTML table so that the data would look more organised. I wanted to add the description tag as well, but I could not strip the HTML tags that were included in the external XML file from this, therefore I decided not to display it. To load the files into my webpage I loaded the external XML file that had the items that I wanted to extract. Then I applied my stylesheet where I did what was mentioned above and finally used transformtoXML to combine the two to successfully output the items using my table.
What do you see as the main advantages of using XSLT – outline 2 of these (100 words each).
The main advantage for me of using XSLT let me be able to apply templates to an external XML and let me choose only the tags relevant to my feed. Therefore, the users of my site can see not only articles relevant to their interest but also filter only the information in these articles that I feel is useful. For example, if I decided to emit the publication date in my information, I can choose to not include this but rather just select the author. 
Furthermore, it was logical to apply as the syntax made sense and easy to understand. Once I had the external XML file, I was able to filter out the tags I thought I needed and applied this to my stylesheet. Also, the example code given to us showed different functionalities that were straightforward. There was not a lot of lines of code required for the complexity of the output. This made creating elements relatively straightforward
