Week 3 Critical Appraisal.
You need to add 400 words of appraisal of the work carried out this week. Pick one of the API methods and describe how this works. Then show where this has been used within the “view” code.
Answer:
The API method I chose to focus on was the method that queries the database to display all items in from my items table (getAllItems). This method will be used to display all the items on the main page into each bootstrap card, as well as match up all the items that have articles. A button will then be added which will display the articles related to the item on a different page. 
The first step to complete this is securing a connection to my database where the table for the items is stored in. To do this I call the “getConnstring” method from connectDB.php. Then the SQL query “SELECT * FROM itemsWeek2” selects all items from the database  table the items are stored in. All items are stored into a variable called “result” and then stored into an array called “rows”, which is then encoded into a JSON format. This is all stored in the modal folder of the MVC structure.
The displayalltems.php calls the method “getAllItems” from the “modal” code that creates this JSON object that will display all items in the according bootstrap cards. This is stored within the “view” code.  The variable “text” is equal to the encoded JSON variable “result” that was stored in the “modal” code. The function “$itemjson = json_decode($text);” decodes the JSON variable “text”, storing the items into “itemjson”.
A for loop iterates through the array (the JSON item) that has the items row stored and can display the information when called, or run other methods that return information relevant to that item.
 Are you convinced that an API is a good idea? The answer is YES, give a couple of reasons why!!
Answer:
Using an API is a good idea as it keeps all the PHP related to SQL queries separate to all other files. All SQL functions that query the database are kept separately, as well as having a seperate file dedicated to setting up a connection to the database.
This makes using an API more productive, as you don’t have to keep on typing out the same code to retrieve information from the database over and over again , as you are able to call the pre existing method that you have written previously. This will reduce the time you spend rewriting PHP and if any of your functions break or you change any details in the database you will only have to adjust the code once.
Furthermore, API’s structures your files in an improved manner. If you want to change any queries you can do this easily without going through your whole code that will directly affect the “view” of the website. The MVC keeps your files organized and easier to find what you are looking for as well as keeping the code you do generic and reusable.
